# October 10th, 2023

## Plan For The Day

1. Review Pokedex Project
   1. What's the goal?
      1. Build a [pokedex](https://www.pokemon.com/us/pokedex)!
   2. APIs
      1. Application Programming Interface
   3. Fetch API
      1. What is it?
      2. How do we use it?
   4. React Hooks
2. Lets talk about React Hooks More In Depth
   1. What are they?
   2. Why do we use them?
   3. How do we use them?
   4. Demo: https://github.com/joshuapeters/react-hook-examples
   5. Basic Hook Examples
      1. useState
         1. Used for setting and getting data in react components that the component needs to manage
         2. calling the setter function for the state will cause the component to re-render
      2. useEffect
         1. Used for running code when the component mounts, unmounts, or when a value changes
         2. The dependency array is used to tell react when to run the effect
            1. If the dependency array is empty, the effect will only run when the component mounts and unmounts
            2. If the dependency array has values in it, the effect will run when the component mounts, unmounts, and when any of the values in the dependency array change
         3. Common uses:
            1. Fetching data on mount
            2. Cleaning up event listeners on unmount
            3. Updating some state when a value changes
         4. Easy to overuse
            1. [Read "You might not need an effect" in the react docs for common cases when you can avoid useEffects.](https://react.dev/learn/you-might-not-need-an-effect)
      3. useRef
         1. Used to store a value that persists between renders
         2. Most common use is to store a reference to a DOM element
            1. Why would you want to do this?
               1. To focus an input
               2. To scroll to a specific element
               3. To get the size of an element
               4. To set up a listener on an element
            2. Often used in conjunction with useEffect
               1. You can use useRef to store a reference to a DOM element, then use useEffect to set up/tear down a listener on that element
   6. Context
      1. What is it?
      2. Why do we use it?
      3. How do we use it?
